lab/04_uc13_based_examples/00_pipeline_preparation.md, before:

# Use Case 13 pipeline preparation for Winter School

## 1. Create a directory for the pipeline
```
mkdir uc13_lab
cd uc13_lab
```

## 2. Download and extract the data
You need to download the data from [here](https://upvedues-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/salcarpo_upv_edu_es/EUByteF4uH1HorGCvqlat0QBSmT3wE2COc85i4mf80VzbA?e=yi4Yok)
or [from a Dropbox folder](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/vqdewy1ocqpkiu4/AADiUCojhLOrcxNmCUwtopuGa/clean_signals.zip?dl=0)
or [from a local UPV server](https://clocalprog.dsic.upv.es/winter-school/data/clean_signals.zip),
_do not worry about the certificate, you can trust it, it was generated locally by the coordinator of this winter school (Jon Ander G&oacute;mez)_.

It is a zip file (7.6 GB) which contains the signals prepared for this lab session.
You need to download and extract it in the directory that was created before.
You can extract the file with the following command.
```
# Inside the uc13_lab directory
unzip -q clean_signals.zip
```

## 3. Download the code
In the same directory `uc13_lab/` you need to download the code. To do that, we will clone a branch of the Use Case 13 pipeline repository which has the required files.
```
git clone https://github.com/deephealthproject/UC13_pipeline --branch winter-school
```
It will generate a new directory called `UC13_pipeline` which will be the working directory for the experiments.

## 4. Activate environment
Last step is to activate the Anaconda environment (if it is not activated yet) and to install some dependencies.
```
conda activate winter-school

# Go inside the pipeline directory if you are not inside yet
cd uc13_lab/UC13_pipeline

# Install dependencies (it could be already installed by the other pipelines)
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If you have not installed the environment, please follow the guide [here](https://github.com/deephealthproject/winter-school/blob/main/lab/01_installation/README.md).

At the end, you should have a directory structure like this:
```
uc13_lab/
|
+-- clean_signals/
|
+-- UC13_pipeline/
```


Finally, we are ready to run some experiments.
Continue with the main guide of the lab session [here](https://github.com/deephealthproject/winter-school/tree/main/lab/04_uc13_based_examples).

Commit message:

Added steps for the prepared infrastructure users

lab/04_uc13_based_examples/00_pipeline_preparation.md, after:

# Use Case 13 pipeline preparation for Winter School
With this guide, you will learn how to download and prepare the code and data to execute the UC13 pipeline.

**If you are using the Winter School infrastructure (UNITO), skip steps 1, 2 and 3**. Because you already have the code and data in your */mnt* directory. This directory is read-only, so to modify the code, we will copy the pipeline code to the home directory with the following commands:
    
    # Copy the code avoiding the data folder
    rsync -a --progress --exclude 'clean_signals/' /mnt/pipelines/uc13_lab/ ~/uc13_lab
    # Create a symlink to the data in the new folder
    ln -s /mnt/pipelines/uc13_lab/clean_signals ~/uc13_lab/clean_signals

If you are going to prepare the pipeline on your machine, follow just the following steps.


## 1. Create a directory for the pipeline
```
mkdir uc13_lab
cd uc13_lab
```

## 2. Download and extract the data
You need to download the data from [here](https://upvedues-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/salcarpo_upv_edu_es/EUByteF4uH1HorGCvqlat0QBSmT3wE2COc85i4mf80VzbA?e=yi4Yok)
or [from a Dropbox folder](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/vqdewy1ocqpkiu4/AADiUCojhLOrcxNmCUwtopuGa/clean_signals.zip?dl=0)
or [from a local UPV server](https://clocalprog.dsic.upv.es/winter-school/data/clean_signals.zip),
_do not worry about the certificate, you can trust it, it was generated locally by the coordinator of this winter school (Jon Ander G&oacute;mez)_.

It is a zip file (7.6 GB) which contains the signals prepared for this lab session.
You need to download and extract it in the directory that was created before.
You can extract the file with the following command.
```
# Inside the uc13_lab directory
unzip -q clean_signals.zip
```

## 3. Download the code
In the same directory `uc13_lab/` you need to download the code. To do that, we will clone a branch of the Use Case 13 pipeline repository which has the required files.
```
git clone https://github.com/deephealthproject/UC13_pipeline --branch winter-school
```
It will generate a new directory called `UC13_pipeline` which will be the working directory for the experiments.

## 4. Activate environment
Last step is to activate the Anaconda environment (if it is not activated yet) and to install some dependencies.
```
conda activate winter-school

# Go inside the pipeline directory if you are not inside yet
cd uc13_lab/UC13_pipeline

# Install dependencies (it could be already installed by the other pipelines)
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If you have not installed the environment, please follow the guide [here](https://github.com/deephealthproject/winter-school/blob/main/lab/01_installation/README.md).

At the end, you should have a directory structure like this:
```
uc13_lab/
|
+-- clean_signals/
|
+-- UC13_pipeline/
```


Finally, we are ready to run some experiments.
Continue with the main guide of the lab session [here](https://github.com/deephealthproject/winter-school/tree/main/lab/04_uc13_based_examples).
